---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1 UI Basics Technical Essay
date: 2021-09-15
labels:
  - HTML
  - CSS
---

<b>BrowserHistory1</b>

This WOD took me exactly 13 minutes and 47 seconds to complete. Although I achieved Rx time, it was definitely not easy. Before our labs, I didn’t program in HTML for around 9 months. I remembered some main concepts such as headers, line breaks, and lists; however, I particularly had difficulty remembering linking to external and internal web pages. It took me several failed attempts on how to link web pages before I finally watched the screencast example. After that, it was a “oh, I remember!” moment. Through this WOD, I re-learned how to link to external and internal web pages. 

My advice for my fellow classmates is to brush up on your HTML skills beforehand and to stay focused on one task at a time. 


<b>BrowserHistory2</b>

WOD #2 took me 7 minutes and 54 seconds to complete. Again I achieved Rx time, but not without some obstacles along the way. I probably remember CSS the most from ICS 101 because it was really enjoyable being able to mix-and-match colors, choosing sleek fonts, and structurizing the web page. However, I had major difficulties utilizing Google Fonts. I had two DNF’s before I caved in and watched the screencast. To be honest, I forgot some parts of the Google Fonts tutorial and how to link to the webpage. Ultimately, I learned how to link Google fonts to create more expressive web pages, and that HTML and CSS can sometimes be not so forgiving. 

My advice to fellow classmates is to pay attention to the readings and again, practice beforehand. It also helps to memorize and understand the tags, so you don’t waste precious time trying to remember them like I did. 


<b>BrowserHistory3</b>

This was by far the most difficult WOD for me. It took me a stressful10 minutes and 26 seconds to complete, which gives me Av time. Although I had remembered at least some major concepts in HTML, I completely forgot about divs and mains. With the first two WODs, I knew what to do; however, I was missing some pieces, but on this WOD, I didn’t even know where to start. Thankfully I watched the screencast and was able to complete the assignment. This was by far the most I’ve learned from a WOD up to this point; I learned how divs and mains can section a web page, and how to reference them in CSS. 

As for advice, I think brushing up your knowledge is not a bad idea. It can save you a lot of time and stress. Overall, never giving up is key! For all three WODs, it took me around 2 to 4 attempts just to complete them. It can be easy to feel discouraged after being stuck and lost, but never giving up is the most important for success. 
